Chapter 1.
Introduction
In this book we’ll be building a web application called Snippetbox, which lets people paste
and share snippets of text — a bit like 
Pastebin
 or GitHub’s 
Gists
. Towards the end of the build
it will look a bit like this:
Our application will start off super simple, with just one web page. Then with each chapter
we’ll build it up step-by-step until a user is able save and view snippets via the app. This will
take us through topics like how to structure a project, routing requests, working with a
database, processing forms and displaying dynamic data safely.
Then later in the book we’ll add user accounts, and restrict the application so that only
registered users can create snippets. This will take us through more advanced topics like
configuring a HTTPS server, session management, user authentication and middleware.Conventions
Throughout this book code blocks are shown with a silver background like below. If the code
is particularly long, parts that aren’t relevant may be replaced with an ellipsis. To make it easy
to follow along, most code blocks also have a title bar at the top indicating the name of the
file that we’re working on.
File: hello.go
package
 
main
...
 
// Indicates that some existing code has been omitted.
func
 
sayHello
(
)
 
{
    
fmt
.
Println
(
"Hello world!"
)
}
Terminal (command line) instructions are shown with a black background and start with a
dollar symbol. These commands should work on any Unix-based operating system, including
Mac OSX and Linux. Sample output is shown in silver beneath the command, like so:
$ echo "Hello world!"
Hello world!
If you’re using Windows, you should replace the command with the DOS equivalent or carry
out the action via the normal Windows GUI.
Some chapters in this book end with an 
additional information
 section. These sections
contain information that isn’t relevant to our application build, but is still important (or
sometimes, just interesting) to know about. If you’re very new to Go, you might want to skip
these parts and circle back to them later.
Hint:
 If you’re following along with the application build I recommend using the HTML
version of this book instead of the PDF or EPUB. The HTML version works in all browsers,
and the proper formatting of code blocks is retained if you want to copy-and-paste code
directly from the book.
About the author
Hey, I’m Alex Edwards, a full-stack web developer and author. I live near Innsbruck, Austria.I’ve been working with Go for over 8 years, building production applications for myself and
commercial clients, and helping people all around the world improve their Go skills.
You can see more of my writing on 
my blog
 (where I publish detailed tutorials), some of my
open-source work on 
GitHub
, and you can also follow me on 
Instagram
 and 
Twitter
.
Copyright and disclaimer
Let’s Go: Learn to build professional web applications with Go
. Copyright © 2023 Alex Edwards.
Last updated 2023-02-17 14:27:59 UTC. Version 2.20.0.
The Go gopher was designed by 
Renee French
 and is used under the Creative Commons 3.0
Attributions license. Cover gopher adapted from vectors by 
Egon Elbre
.
The information provided within this book is for general informational purposes only. While the
author and publisher have made every effort to ensure the accuracy of the information within
this book was correct at time of publication there are no representations or warranties, express
or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect
to the information, products, services, or related graphics contained in this book for any
purpose. Any use of this information is at your own risk.Chapter 1.1.
Prerequisites
Background knowledge
This book is designed for people who are new to Go, but you’ll probably find it more
enjoyable if you have a general understanding of Go’s syntax first. If you find yourself
struggling with the syntax, the 
Little Book of Go
 by Karl Seguin is a fantastic tutorial, or if you
want something more interactive I recommend running through the 
Tour of Go
.
I’ve also assumed that you’ve got a (very) basic understanding of HTML/CSS and SQL, and
some familiarity with using your terminal (or command line for Windows users). If you’ve built
a web application in any other language before — whether it’s Ruby, Python, PHP or C# —
then this book should be a good fit for you.
Go 1.20
The information in this book is correct for the 
latest major release of Go
 (version 1.20), and
you should install this if you’d like to code-along with the application build.
If you’ve already got Go installed, you can check the version number from your terminal by
using the 
go version
 command. The output should look similar to this:
$ go version
go version go1.20 linux/amd64
If you need to upgrade your version of Go — or install Go from scratch — then please go ahead
and do that now. Detailed instructions for different operating systems can be found here:
Removing an old version of Go
Installing Go on Mac OS X
Installing Go on Windows
Installing Go on Linux
Other software
There are a few other bits of software that you should make sure are available on yourcomputer if you want to follow along fully. They are:
The 
curl
 tool for working with HTTP requests and responses from your terminal. On MacOS
and Linux machines it should be pre-installed or available in your software repositories.
Otherwise, you can download the latest version 
from here
.
A web browser with good developer tools. I’ll be using 
Firefox
 in this book, but Chromium,
Chrome or Microsoft Edge will work too.
Your favorite text editor 
