Chapter 15.
Conclusion
Over the course of this book we’ve explicitly covered a lot of topics, including routing,
templating, working with a database, authentication/authorization, using HTTPS, using Go’s
testing package and more.
But there have been some other, more tacit, lessons too. The patterns that we’ve used to
implement features — and the way that our project code is organized and links together — is
something that you should be able to take and apply in your future work.
Importantly, I also wanted the book to convey that 
you don’t need a framework to build web
applications in Go
. Go’s standard library contains almost all the tools that you need… even for
a moderately complex application. For the times that you do need help with a specific task —
like session management, routing or password hashing — there are lightweight and focused
third-party packages that you can reach for.
At this point, if you’ve coded along with the book, I recommend taking a bit of time to review
the code that you’ve written so far. As you go through it, make sure that you’re clear in your
mind about what each part of the codebase does, and how it fits in with the project as a
whole.
You might also want to circle back to any parts of the book that you found difficult to
understand the first-time around. For example, now that you’re more familiar with Go, 
the
http.Handler
 interface
 chapter might be easier to digest. Or, now that you’ve seen how
testing is handled in our application, the decisions we made in the 
designing a database
model
 chapter might click into place.
If you bought the 
Professional Package
 version of this book, then I strongly recommend
working through the guided exercises in chapter 17 (right at the end of this book, after this
conclusion and the appendices). The exercises should help to consolidate what you’ve
learned — and working through them semi-independently will give you some extra practice
with the patterns and techniques from this book before you use them again in your own
projects.Let's Go Further
If you’d like to continue learning more, then you might want to check out 
Let’s Go Further
. It’s
written as a follow-up to this book, and covers more advanced patterns for developing,
managing and deploying APIs and web applications.
It guides you through the start-to-finish build and deployment of a RESTful JSON API, and
includes topics like:
Sending and receiving JSON
Working with SQL migrations
Managing background tasks
Performing partial updates and using optimistic locking
Permission-based authorization
Controlling CORS requests
Graceful shutdowns
Exposing application metrics
Automating build and deployment steps
You can check out a sample of the book, and get more information and FAQ answers at
https://lets-go-further.alexedwards.net
.
As a small gift for existing readers, you can also use the discount code 
FURTHER15
 at
checkout to get 
15% off
 the regular list price.